Compilation and Installation of Eggdrop Last revised: May 5, 2021

Installing Eggdrop

This is the quick install guide; if you have had little or no experience
with UNIX or Eggdrop, READ THE README FILE NOW! This file is only for
experienced users.

For more information on compiling Eggdrop, see the Compile Guide in
doc/COMPILE-GUIDE (and of course, the README FILE).

OVERVIEW

1.  What is Eggdrop?
2.  Quick Startup
3.  Cygwin Requirements (Windows)
4.  Modules
5.  Frequently Asked Questions

WHAT IS EGGDROP?

Please, read the README file before attempting to set up this bot. This
file is a quick setup guide, not a miracle worker. If you enter this
file without basic Eggdrop knowledge, you will NOT leave with a working
bot! Before asking ANY questions, READ THE README FILE OR YOU WILL BE
BURNED TO A HORRIBLE DEATH! IF YOU DO NOT READ THAT FILE I WILL
PERSONALLY WALK TO YOUR TERMINAL AND BEAT IT WITH A SMELLY SNEAKER! By
the way, read the README file.

QUICK STARTUP

Eggdrop uses the GNU autoconfigure scripts to make things easier.

1.  

    Type './configure' from the Eggdrop directory. The configure script

        will determine how your system is set up and figure out how to
        correctly compile Eggdrop. It will also try to find Tcl, which
        is required to compile.

2.  

    Type either 'make config' or 'make iconfig' to determine which

        modules will be compiled. 'make config' compiles the default
        modules (everything but woobie.mod). If you want to choose which
        modules to compile, use 'make iconfig'.

3.  

    Type 'make' from the Eggdrop directory, or to force a statically

        linked module bot, type 'make static'. Otherwise, the Makefile
        will compile whatever type of bot the configure script
        determined your system will support. Dynamic is always the
        better way to go if possible. There are also the 'debug' and
        'sdebug' (static-debug) options, which will give more detailed
        output on a (highly unlikely :) crash. This will help the
        development team track down the crash and fix the bug. Debug and
        sdebug will take a little longer to compile and will enlarge the
        binary a bit, but it's worth it if you want to support Eggdrop
        development.

4.  

    Eggdrop must be installed in a directory somewhere. This is

        accomplished by entering the UNIX command:

            make install

        This will install the Eggdrop in your home directory in a
        directory called 'eggdrop' (i.e. /home/user/eggdrop).

        If you want to install to a different directory, use:

            make install DEST=<directory>

        For example:

            make install DEST=/home/user/otherdir

        Note that you must use full path for every file to be correctly
        installed.

        [The following is performed from the directory installed above.]

5.  

    By default, version 1.9 uses SSL to protect botnet links. If you intend

        on linking 1.9 bots together, you must run:

            make sslcert

        Or, if you installed your eggdrop to a different directory in
        step 4, you will want to run:

          make sslcert DEST=<directory>

        For those using scripts to install Eggdrop, you can
        non-interactively generate a key and certificate by running:

          make sslsilent

        Read docs/TLS for more info on this process.

6.  Edit your config file completely.

7.  Start the bot with the "-m" option to create a user file, i.e. :

        ./eggdrop -m LamestBot.conf

8.  

    When starting the bot in the future, drop the "-m". If you have edited

        your config file correctly, you can type:

            chmod u+x <my-config-file-name>

        For example:

            chmod u+x LamestBot.conf

        From then on, you will be able to use your config file as a
        shell script. You can just type "./LamestBot.conf" from your
        shell prompt to start up your bot. For this to work, the top
        line of your script MUST contain the correct path to the Eggdrop
        executable.

9.  

    It's advisable to run your bot via crontab, so that it will

        automatically restart if the machine goes down or (heaven
        forbid) the bot should crash. Look at 'scripts/botchk' and
        'scripts/autobotchk' for a great start with crontabbing the bot.

10. Smile, and if you haven't already read the README file in its
    entirety, go take a long walk off a short pier.

CYGWIN REQUIREMENTS (WINDOWS)

Eggdrop requires the following packages to be added from the Cygwin
installation tool prior to compiling:

    Interpreters: tcl, tcl-devel
    Net:          openssl-devel
    Devel:        autoconf, gcc-core, git, make
    Utils:        diffutils

MODULES

Modules are small pieces of code that can either be compiled into the
binary or can be compiled separately into a file. This allows for a much
smaller binary.

If there are any modules that you have made or downloaded, you can add
them to the bot by placing them in the /src/mod directory with a mod
extension. They will be automatically compiled during make for you. They
must have a valid Makefile and, of course, be compatible with the rest
of the Eggdrop source.

If you wish to add a module at a later time, follow the same steps in
paragraph 2. After you have moved the appropriate files, you will only
need to type 'make modules' to compile only the modules portion of the
bot.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

  (Q) What do I do if...?
  (R) READ THE README FILE!
  (S) The readme does not answer...!
  (T) READ THE README FILE AGAIN!
  (U) I still don't know how to...
  (V) MEMORIZE THE README FILE!
  (W) But...
  (X) Well, go to www.egghelp.org or www.eggheads.org and see if you can
      find there what you're looking for. There are also lots of IRC
      help channels and various mailing lists, as seen in the README
      FILE.

This is the end. If you read to this point, hopefully you have also read
the README file. If not, then READ IT!&@#%@!

Have fun with Eggdrop!

  Copyright (C) 1997 Robey Pointer Copyright (C) 1999 - 2021 Eggheads
  Development Team
