News - Updated 02 April 2000
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whats new, first read the following documents:

     INSTALL
     README
     BOTNET
     UPDATES1.5
     tcl-commands

All of these documents combined will fill you in on the latest changes to
eggdrop in version 1.5.xx. Further down the file is changes made from the
1.3.xx to the 1.4.xx version of eggdrop. All files are also available in
html in doc/html/.

A lot of things have changed in this version so at a minimum read the
UPDATES1.5 text file. UPDATES shows whats been added and fixed
along the way.


CAUTION:

     1. Before you start the bot for the first time BACKUP your
     userfile if this is an upgrade from a previous version.

     2. DON'T USE YOUR OLD CONFIG FILE.. MAKE A NEW ONE.........

Changes made to Eggdrop 1.5.xx from Eggdrop1.4.xx

!CHANNELS

     Support for IRCNET !channels was added to eggdrop. Also this
     might be still a bit buggy, it should work basically. We
     appreciate bug reports!

+/-NODESYNCH

     This new channel setting replaces the old 'allow-desync' setting
     from global to channel functionality. This setting is usefull if
     you use some kind of chanserv or if you don't care about your
     channel being desnych.

ASYNCHRONOUS DNS MODULE

     Eggdrop 1.5.1 is shipped with a new module, the dns module. It
     replaces those old dns-lookups performed by eggdrop which could
     halt the whole bot during a time-out. We also added a new tcl
     command 'dnslookup', so scripts can look up IP's and hostname now
     asynchronously, too.

COMMANDS

     * ".nick" was renamed to ".handle". ".nick" will still be kept
       up to version 1.8.
     * ".chnick" was renamed to ".chhandle". ".chnick" will still be kept
       up to version 1.8.

NICK LENGTH

     To support longer nicknames as some irc servers do (dalnet I
     think) a settings was added for this one (nick-len).

PENALTY CALCULATION

     Eggdrop calculates penalty points on IRCNET now, so it won't
     flood itself off anymore.

SHARE MODULE

     Share module got a new setting now (override-bots) which allows
     hub bots to override the leafs bot setting (botadress, telnet
     port and password). Please note, that this won't work with a 1.4
     or even 1.3 bot.

TCL COMMANDS

     * All three commands to add stuff to the queus (puthelp, putserv
       and putquick) support the '-next' parameter now which pushes
       data to the front of the queues.
     * An command to calculate md5 checksums was added (md5).
     * To support the new asynch dns module, the command 'dnslookup'
     was added.
     * chnick was renamed to chhandle. The use of chnick is deprecated
       chnick will is still accessible if you load compat.tcl

TRAFFIC ACCOUNTING

     Eggdrop counts the whole traffic which it generates and receives
     through irc,botnet and dcc now. You can access these statistica
     via the dcc command '.traffic'. Please note, that the counter
     gets reset every time a restart is done.

TRANSFER / FILESYS MODULE

     The filesys and transfer modules have changed completely. Both
     can handle now unlimited filename lengths and description sizes.
     Incomplete downloads from the bot can be resumed now.
     The db format of the filesys module was also changed to remove
     the limits imposed by the old format. There's nothing special for
     you to do as the old db is automatically converted to the new
     format when you first access it. You won't be able to downgrade
     to older versions after this though, so maybe you'll want to make
     a backup first.

Changes made to Eggdrop 1.4.xx from Eggdrop1.3.xx

SHARING

     Sharing has changed a little. You will notice that a resync
     buffer is kept for share bots when they disconnect. This allows
     for them not to have to send the entire userfile again when they
     reconnect. This is a much more effient approach to syncing the
     user files.

BOTFLAGS

     Bot flags have changed. It is recommended that you read the
     BOTNET document to learn more about linking bots. Major changes
     in how you configure a passive and aggressive bot.

USERFLAGS

     User flags have changed. You still have the basic flags but
     others have been added. Some changes to this are that if someone
     has a global +n they will automatically be given all the global
     flags available. You will also notice there are no more capital
     letters; each flag has its own unique letter. An example is the B
     flag, in previous versions, it stood for a botnet master. The new
     flag is t. For more information on these changes, see the .help
     whois for a list of all flags. 1.3.24 introduces a new flag for
     +stopnethack procedure flexibility: +w.

LANGUAGES

     Almost everthing the bot says now is in language file. This
     should allow the bot to be more versatile for other people that
     do not speak english. As soon as we start getting the
     translations in there will be a directory on ftp.eggheads.org
     that will contain ready to use language files. Look for it real
     soon.

COMMANDS

     .voice and .devoice commands where added in dcc chat. This will
     voice a user on a channel if the bot is oped. Likewise for the
     .devoice command.
     .email is now support in userinfo1.0.tcl so if you want emails to
     work, use this :)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) 1997 Robey Pointer
(c) 2000 Eggheads Development Team


