Upgrading Eggdrop

  It is easy to upgrade Eggdrop to a new version! To have a full picture
  of the changes made since your last upgrade, we recommend reading the
  NEWS file. Upgrades from the 1.6 and 1.8 lines of Eggdrop should take
  place with little to no issues. The config file, user files, and
  channel files can all be reused.

  For support, feel free to visit us on Libera #eggdrop.

HOW TO UPGRADE

  To upgrade to a newer version of Eggdrop, first backup your .config
  file, .user file, and .chan file. While they are saved and should not
  be overwritten by the upgrade process, it never hurts to make anothere
  copy :)

  Next, view the NEWS file to see what changes have been made, paying
  particular attention to the config file section to see what
  new/different commands have been added. Update your config file
  appropriately.

  Then, simply follow the same steps you followed to install Eggdrop
  previously. Download the source, unzip/untar it, and run the
  './configure', 'make config', 'make', and 'make install' commands.
  Restart your Eggdrop and you will be up and running with the latest
  version of Eggdrop.

MUST-READ CHANGES FOR EGGDROP V1.9

These are NOT all the changes or new settings; rather just the "killer"
changes that may directly affect Eggdrop's previous performance without
modification.

Config file changes

To migrate from a 1.8 to a 1.9 Eggdrop, some changes are suggested to be
made in your configuration file:

-   Eggdrop has deprecated the blowfish module for password hashing in
    favor of the PBKDF2 module. This is a BIG change which, if done
    carelessly, has the potential to render stored passwords useless.
    Please see doc/PBKDF2 for information on how to properly migrate
    your userfiles and passwords to the new module.

-   Eggdrop 1.9 switched from the "set servers {}" syntax to the "server
    add" command. For example, if your configuration file previously
    had:

        set servers {
          my.server.com:6667
        }

    you should now instead use:

        server add my.server.com 6667

    Please read the config file for additional examples

-   Eggdrop no longer requires the '-n' flag to start Eggdrop in
    terminal mode.

Modules

While most 3rd party modules that worked on Eggdrop v1.6/v1.8 should
still work with Eggdrop v1.9, many of them contain a version check that
only allows them to run on 1.6.x bots. We have removed the version check
from some of the more popular modules provide them at
ftp://eggheads.org/pub/eggdrop/modules/1.9/

Scripts

All 3rd party Tcl scripts that work with Eggdrop v1.6/v1.8 should fully
work with Eggdrop v1.9.

Botnet

In Eggdrop v1.8, Eggdrop bots would automatically attempt to upgrade any
botnet link to an SSL/TLS connection. In v1.9, the user is required to
explicitly request an SSL/TLS connection by prefixing the port with a
'+'. If you wish your botnet to take advantage of encryption, use the
.chaddr command to update your ports to start with a '+'.

Tcl Commands

A lot of backwards-compatible additions and changes have been made to
Tcl commands. Please look at doc/tcl-commands.doc to see them.

Documentation

Documentation has been updated to reflect new and removed commands and
variables.
