Modules included with Eggdrop

mod/assoc mod/blowfish mod/channels mod/compress mod/console mod/ctcp
mod/dns mod/filesys mod/ident mod/irc mod/notes mod/pbkdf2 mod/python
mod/seen mod/server mod/share mod/transfer mod/twitch mod/woobie
mod/uptime

assoc

    This module provides assoc support, i.e. naming channels on the
    botnet.

blowfish

    This module has been deprecated in favor of the pbkdf2 module for
    hashing purposes, such as passwords in the userfile. However, it is
    still required for encrypting/decrypting strings.

channels

    This module provides channel related support for the bot. Without
    it, you won't be able to make the bot join a channel or save channel
    specific userfile information.

compress

    This module provides support for file compression. With share module loaded
    this allows the bot to transfer compressed user files and, therefore, save a
    significant amount of bandwidth.

console

    This module provides storage of console settings when you exit the
    bot or type .store on the partyline.

ctcp

    This module provides the normal ctcp replies that you'd expect.
    Without it loaded, CTCP CHAT will not work.

dns

    This module provides asynchronous dns support. This will avoid long
    periods where the bot just hangs there, waiting for a hostname to
    resolve, which will often let it timeout on all other connections.

filesys

    This module provides an area within the bot where users can store
    and manage files. With this module, the bot is usable as a file
    server.

ident

    This module adds Eggdrop support for the externally-provided oident
    service, or alternatively the ability for Eggdrop to act as its own
    ident daemon.

irc

    This module provides basic IRC support for your bot. You have to
    load this if you want your bot to come on IRC.

notes

    This module provides support for storing of notes for users from
    each other. Note sending between currently online users is supported
    in the core, this is only for storing the notes for later retrieval.

pbkdf2

    This modules updates Eggdrop to use PBKDF2 for hashing purposes,
    such as for userfile passwords. It was specifically designed to work
    with the blowfish module to make the transition from blowfish to
    pbkdf2 password hashing as easy as possible. If you are
    transitioning a userfile from 1.8 or earlier, you should load this
    AND the blowfish module. By doing so, Eggdrop will seamlessly update
    the old blowfish hashes to the new PBKDF2 hashes once a user logs in
    for the first time, and allow you to (eventually) remove the
    blowfish module altogether. For new bots, you should load this
    module by itself and not use the blowfish module. The blowfish
    module is still required if you use Tcl to encrypt/decrypt strings
    in Tcl (ie, some scripts). Eggdrop will not start without a
    password-hashing module loaded.

python

    This module adds a python interpreter to Eggdrop, enabling you to
    run python scripts on your Eggdrop!

seen

    This module provides very basic seen commands via msg, on channel or
    via dcc. This module works only for users in the bot's userlist. If
    you are looking for a better and more advanced seen module, try the
    gseen module, originally written by G'Quann and forked/updated for
    modern Eggdrop by mortmann. You can find it at
    https://github.com/michaelortmann/gseen.mod

server

    This module provides the core server support. You have to load this
    if you want your bot to come on IRC. Not loading this is equivalent
    to the old NO_IRC define.

share

    This module provides userfile sharing support between two directly
    linked bots.

transfer

    The transfer module provides DCC SEND/GET support and userfile
    transfer support for userfile sharing.

twitch

    The Twitch module modifies Eggdrop to interact with the Twitch
    service. Twitch uses a modified implementation of IRC so not all
    functionality will be present. Please read doc/TWITCH for specifics
    on how to best use the Tiwtch module.

uptime

    This module reports uptime statistics to the uptime contest web site
    at https://www.eggheads.org/uptime. Go look and see what your uptime
    is! It takes about 9 hours to show up, so if your bot isn't listed,
    try again later. See doc/settings/mod.uptime for more information,
    including details on what information is sent to the uptime server.

woobie

    This is for demonstrative purposes only. If you are looking for
    starting point in writing modules, woobie is the right thing.
