IRCv3 support Last revised: November 27, 2021

IRCv3 support

This document provides information about IRCv3 capabilities, as defined
via specifications documented by the IRCv3 working group
(https://ircv3.net/). Support for some of these specifications was added
starting with version 1.9.0, and more capabilities are added as possible
with new versions.

ABOUT

As more and more IRC servers began to develop and implement their own
versions of the IRC protocol (generally defined in RFC1459 and RFC2812),
a working group comprised of server, client, and bot developers decided
to work together to document these features to make their implementation
defined and standardized across servers. What emerged was the IRCv3 set
of standards. The specifications developed by the IRCv3 working group
was designed to be backwards compatible and are generally implemented
via a CAP (capability) request sent at the initialization of an IRC
session. A client can optinoally request these "extra" capabilities be
enabled through the CAP request, with the assumption that the client can
then support the capability requested and enabled. Not all servers or
clients support the same capabilities, a general support list can be via
the appropriate support table link at https://ircv3.net/.

USAGE

Within eggdrop.conf, several common IRCv3-defined capabilities are
enabled simply changing their setting to '1'. Other capabilities without
explicit settings in eggdrop.conf may be requested by adding them in a
space-separated list to the cap-request setting. For more information on
what a specific IRCv3-defined capability does, please consult
https://ircv3.net/irc/.

SUPPORTED CAP CAPABILITIES

The following capabilities are supported by Eggdrop:

  -   CAP/CAP 302 requests
  -   SASL 3.2
  -   account-notify
  -   account-tag
  -   away-notify
  -   BOT 005 mode
  -   cap-notify
  -   chghost
  -   echo-message
  -   extended-join
  -   invite-notify
  -   message-tags
  -   Monitor
  -   server-time
  -   setname
  -   +typing

Copyright (C) 2010 - 2023 Eggheads Development Team
