Eggdrop Tricks Last revised: Jun 02, 2021

Advanced Tips

Here are some little tricks that you may or may not know about, which
aren't documented in other areas.

RENAMING COMMANDS

You can rename a built-in command by binding over it. To rename
'.status' to '.report', you'd do:

    unbind dcc - status *dcc:status
    bind dcc m report *dcc:status

The first line removes the built-in binding on '.status', and the second
line binds '.report' to the built-in status function.

KEEPING LOGS

If you don't want your logfiles to be deleted after two days and don't
want the bot to create a new logfile each new day, then set
'keep-all-logs' to 0 and 'switch-logfiles-at' to 2500 in your bot's
config file to make it keeping one logfile all the time. This is not
recommended on high traffic channels.

SELF-LOGGING

Because of how traditional IRC works, Eggdrop doesn't capture outgoing
messages to its logfile. However, if the server you are on supports the
IRCv3 capability "echo-message", you can request this capability to be
enabled by the server in your config file. This will cause the server to
send Eggdrop'd public messages back, thereby allowing those messages to
be logged.

MODIFYING DEFAULT STRINGS

You can modify Eggdrop's output in the partyline, kick messages, and
other texts by editing core.english.lang in the language directory.

MODULARIZING YOUR CONFIG FILE

You can export parts of your config file to separate files. For example,
if you have several config files which differ from themselves only by
the nickname and the used servers, you can export them to an own file
and link it with the 'source' Tcl command, similar to a script. The
advantage of this is that you have to edit/upload only the small file
instead of the big one. This technique is also useful if you want to
maintain the same channel settings, etc across your botnet.

VARIABLES IN YOUR CONFIG

You can use variables in your config file, since it's really just a
normal Tcl file. For example, you can set 'userfile' and 'chanfile' to
"yourbot.user" and "yourbot.chan" using the following method:

    set myvar "yourbot"
    set userfile "$myvar.user"
    set chanfile "$myvar.chan"

Copyright (C) 1999 - 2023 Eggheads Development Team
